---
layout: post
title: "Travis Continuous Integration"
date: 2019-11-12
---

I have been writing a lot of codes for my research and for random side projects. To ensure that modification to existing codes don't break the rest of the code, it is crucial to test codes. Part of the astronomical software development community has been pretty good at this. The use of continuous integration (e.g., travis) is also becoming more and more common. I finally put in a few hours to pick it up. I incoporate a very simple test in a repo that I recently created for a case study. 

To begin, I decided that I might as well convert the codes into a package, because I need to import some codes from src/ for the test scripts. 
- In principle, I could have instead just include the `__init__.py` and `sys.path.append('src')` in the right places.
- So I wrote a setup.py and included `- pip install -e .` inside my .travis.yml file

I also restructured the codebase a fair bit, following the more standard practice. 

Note that inside my setup.py, I have `package_dir={'indigocase': 'src'}` , so that I can actually do `import indigocase.lib` in my test scripts after the repo is being build as a package as part of travis.


## Making GDAL and Travis Work is Non-trivial
The code in this repo uses the python package `GDAL`, which cannot be installed simply using `pip`. I have certainly installed it using conda, so I will do the same for the travis build. Thus, I added the installation of miniconda as part of the travis build process. Alas, to install gdal, it requires a separate libary and package (libspatialindex) that needed to be compiled from source. So I had to include some `curl`, `tar`, `./configure`, `make` in the .travis.yml file.

A few things that require special attention and took me a few commits to figure out how to build the travis "environment" properly when we need to compile and install a package from source.
1.  `sudo` is needed for `make` in .travis.yml
2.  subdirctories listed in pytest.ini are automatically searched through following pytest discoveries rules. Put `indigocase` and not `indigocase/tests/` as testpaths in the pytest.ini file
3.  make sure to use `pushd` and `popd` when installing a package from source. Otherwise we won't find the pytest.ini file.

Code structure before: 
```
indigocase
├── MLutils.py
├── README.md
├── Vegation-Multispectral-Bands-Green-Red-Red-Edge-NIR.jpg
├── case.ipynb
├── case.py
├── config.py
├── config.yaml
├── imSeg.ipynb
├── indigocase
│   ├── data
│   │   ├── test.tif
│   │   ├── train.tif
│   │   ├── train_ground_truth.dbf
│   │   ├── train_ground_truth.prj
│   │   ├── train_ground_truth.qpj
│   │   ├── train_ground_truth.shp
│   │   └── train_ground_truth.shx
│   ├── plotField
│   ├── plotML
│   └── tests
├── main.py
├── parser.py
├── plant_analytics.py
├── present.pptx
├── scikitimage.png
├── split_fields_to_DF.py
├── utils.py
└── visutil.py
```

Code structure after:
```
indigocase
├── README.md
├── Vegation-Multispectral-Bands-Green-Red-Red-Edge-NIR.jpg
├── indigocase
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── case.ipynb
│   ├── case.py
│   ├── config.yaml
│   ├── data
│   │   ├── test.tif
│   │   ├── train.tif
│   │   ├── train_ground_truth.dbf
│   │   ├── train_ground_truth.prj
│   │   ├── train_ground_truth.qpj
│   │   ├── train_ground_truth.shp
│   │   └── train_ground_truth.shx
│   ├── imSeg.ipynb
│   ├── imSeg.py
│   ├── plotField
│   ├── plotML
│   ├── src
│   │   ├── MLutils.py
│   │   ├── __init__.py
│   │   ├── config.py
│   │   ├── main.py
│   │   ├── parser.py
│   │   ├── plant_analytics.py
│   │   ├── split_fields_to_DF.py
│   │   ├── utils.py
│   │   └── visutil.py
│   └── tests
│       ├── __init__.py
│       └── test_input.py
├── present.pptx
├── pytest.ini
├── requirements.txt
├── scikitimage.png
└── setup.py
```