---
layout: post
title: "One year at the Institute: path toward finding my true calling"
date: 2019-07-18
---

It's been about a year since I first entered the research institute I am working at. Before my recent big trip to Europe that spanned almost two months, where I visited various universities and research institutes across Europe, I was already well-aware of the major differences between a private institute (at least the one I'm at) and a private university (where I was before joining my current institute), but these differences became even clearer after my trip.

While I enjoy not having to think about food, not having to line up at restaurants for lunch and dinner, having industry-standard benefits (e.g., insurance, 401k, vacations, etc), what I love the most about my current workplace is the stimulating working environment. I often find myself chatting with my colleague during breakfast or coffee about what I'm working on and what they are up to. Typically it starts off with a bit of a chit-chat, e.g., listening to them complaining about their kids, the weather, and so on. Before coming to this insistute, I had never appreciated the value of knowing your colleagues as a person and I really dislike small talks. Not until after I moved to this institute and started working with some of the most wonderful and compassionate people, I finally understand what it means when people keep saying scientists are also human. We work better in teams, and when we develop strong rapport and personal connections. This does not mean we should be nossy about our colleagues' personal life, of course, but it simply means being there to listen and support them in cases of unexpected events in life (e.g., someone/pets in their family just passed away, unable to make a meeting at the very last minute due to kids getting sick, codes not working). We subconciosuly feel more comfortable sharing ideas and correcting each other's mistakes when we are more comfortable with the person. In this process, we also respect and gain respect from one another more since we know the areas which we can contribute to other projects and vice versus. This feeds into a postive loop, and promotes a vibrant and healthy working dynamics.

When I was still working at a university, I used to eat in front of my computer. My interactions with other scientists were limited. At the very most, I only interacted with other PhD students, who are often as equally confused or stuck as I am, or only starting to learn about the subject. Of course it was nice to know your colleagues more, but it was limited to my peers. I knew nothing about the faculties or the senior research scientists within the department. This inevitably created an invisible gap/wall/barrier. In contrast, I love the research institute I'm at. I love the cutting-edge and mutlidisplinary scientific research we are working on; the collaborative and inclusive environment where my voice is being heard; the co-learning environment we have collectively created and embrace. 

Looking back on this past year since I've moved here, the institute and everyone in it has enabled me to become a well-rounded person, a better scientist, a better programmer, and better at collaborating on projects. I learn to take risks, learn to cherish the opporunties where I can just learn and explore various ideas. In fact, it is highly encouraged to do so here. This differs from a university where the grant used to pay everyone's salary is usually tie to a specific project. 

In the past couple of months, I found my interest and pursued a new project rigoriously. I have been extremely self-motivated to come to work and talk to my collaborators to make progress. I have been learning and growing at a breakneck pace. I felt like I have become a different person. Contrary to my introvert instinct, I like meeting new people now. I enjoy exchanging ideas and learning from them. 

Everyone here thinks I am a cheerful person. I think happiness truly depends on the workplace, and the people you are surrounded by. I've made a lot of deep connections and great friends. I've built a great network here. Academicians move between universities a lot. That said, this institute is the best workplace I could ask for for doing scientific research! I am not letting inertia, familiarity, and comfort holding me back from considering opportunities at other places, but there are still a lot to learn here! In addition, I'd like to contribute and give back to this community where I've benefitted from! 

A few things I also want to highlight... I realize I've learned to let go of my tendency to be a perfectionist. I also finally understand the joy of asking questions! I find myself just like anyone else in this "family", there are things I'd know more than others and things I don't have a clue. Yet, everyone here seem to have their own niche. We are like an orchestra, each playing our own music instrument. 

I realize I've been learning more than just the astrophysics! I've also become better at time management, organizing events, how to work efficiently (and therefore, have work-life balance), how to manage my own projects, how to work with people, how to ask questions, how to be a good team player. I am passionate and excited by my work once again, and I found the "me" who's always hungry for knowledge. I am having so much fun here that not a single day felt like work. It's such an incredible feeling! 

Before moving here, I was worried about accepting this position and moving to Manhattan since PhD students don't make a lot. Fortunately, the institute pays enough for me to live in NYC. More importantly. I was adviced by my friends to look at the potential of jobs. It doesn't matter how much I am making, what matters more is the opportunities that'd be avaialble. I took that advice and never regretted. Here, I see opportunities, potential, impact, ideas, and a future. 

All of this, money simply cannot buy. If someone now pays me a salary that's a few times more than what I'm getting (which is common for STEM PhDs when they switch to industry) but asks to work in a toxic environment. I would not consider it at all! I would hate my job. 

I am beginning to remember the young me, the one who decided to leave my family and move to a continent where I knew nobody to puruse higher education. 


