---
layout: post
title: "What made me decided to give Jupyter Notebook A Second Chance"
date: 2019-10-06
---

## Why I am giving Jupyter Notebook a second chance?

When I first learned python, I used jupyter notebook (or ipython notebook back then). But I dropped it in a month. Here are the top three reasons. 

## #1: It wasn't enhancing my efficiency
First, I prefer to write my codes in scripts so I can reuse them in other scripts. I always have a terminal running python that allows me to quickly test my code. So I didn't feel like I was gaining much with jupyter notebook. In addition, I like writing automated codes to make plots in pre-defined directories, with informative filenames for each figure, especially becuase I run a lot of my codes on a supercomputer or a remote server. I prefer to inspect and compare all my plots sequentially/side-by-side and have a hard copy than having to open a Jupyter notebook to compare results. 

## #2: Jupyter notebook metadata screw up version control
Second, I use version control for my codes, but the metadata stored in Jupyter notebook messed that up, leading github to think that I changed everything even if I just saving my .ipynb regularly. 

## #3: Sharing codes with collaborators
While a lot of the code demo are written in python notebook and I appreciate certain features it offers to quickly show someone some snippets of codes and outputs; however, it's not the right tool to collaborate with others, nor doing code reviews. 

(Perhaps there are ways that I am not aware of which I would greatly appreciate if you can leave a comment below.)

# Jupytext to the rescue
At the research insitute, we hold regular meetings to share tools and ways to better our programming skills. I came across this new tool called Jupytext, which is easy to install and use. It synchronizes a .ipynb with a .py file! This means that if I write any codes in .ipynb, I can still upload an up-to-date .py file to my Github repository. Similarly, if any changes is made to a .py file (by me or a collaborator), I can just open the .ipynb file and run it. 

With this I am giving jupyter notebook a second chance. Given my existing workflow, I still prefer to write codes in scripts and excecute them in batch. But for running machine learning methods, I find jupyter notebook to be useful thus far. 

More references on Jupytext:
- https://towardsdatascience.com/introducing-jupytext-9234fdff6c57
- https://pythonawesome.com/jupyter-notebooks-as-markdown-documents/